{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-Oblique;\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red148\green148\blue130;\red46\green46\blue46;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww27460\viewh21620\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Cocoa1090\
Version 0.3.0\
\'a92013-2016 Black Cat Systems, All Rights Reserved
\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
Cocoa1090 is a Mode S (ADS-B) aircraft transponder decoder, written for use with RTL-SDR devices (RTL based USB tuner dongles)\
\
Cocoa1090 requires that rtl_tcp be installed and running. rtl_tcp performs the actual interfacing to the RTL tuner, and serves I/Q data to Cocoa1090.\
\
Instructions on installing RTL-SDR, which includes rtl_tcp, can be found here: http://www.hfunderground.com/wiki/RTL-SDR\
\
As an alternative to rtl_tcp you may wish to use my CocoaRTLServer app: http://www.blackcatsystems.com/software/cocoa_rtl_server.html\
\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Please note that I cannot provide any support for installing or using RTL-SDR.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 \
After you have installed RTL-SDR, and run rtl_test to verify it works, you need to start rtl_tcp. \
\
The easiest way is to go to Finder, navigate to the rtl-sdr folder you downloaded,  then double click on rtl_tcp to start the tcp server.\
\
Using a terminal window:\
Start rtl_tcp by opening a terminal window and typing: ./rtl_tcp\
Alternately, you can start it with ./rtl_tcp -g 9999\
This sets the gain to the maximum value, I find this sometimes improves the decode rate.\
\
(Note: you can quit rtl_tcp when you're all done by first quitting Cocoa1090, then wait a few seconds, then hit control-C while in the rtl_tcp terminal window. Then close the window.)\
\
Then start Cocoa1090. It should connect to rtl_tcp, an error message will be displayed if it cannot. Normally the default I/Q source address of 127.0.0.1 and port 1234 will work correctly. You can change this in the Cocoa1090 preferences. There is also a value for the UDP output port, this is for future use. Note that after making any changes to these values, you must quit and restart Cocoa1090.\
\
Cocoa1090 displays several columns of data, for the decoded information from the ADS-B frames:\
\
ICAO - the hex value of the ICAO assigned address for the plane\
TAIL - the tail number of the plane, based on the ICAO address, read from the icao.txt file. A dash is displayed if the tail number cannot be found in the file.\
FLIGHT - the flight number\
ALTITUDE - in feet\
SPEED - in knots\
LAT - latitude\
LON - longitude\
TRACK - bearing in degrees\
MESSAGES - the total number of messages received from this plane\
SEEN - how long (in seconds) since a message from this plane was received. That is,  how long since it as been seen (or heard from).\
PLANE - the make and model of the plane, from the icao.txt file\
\
The bottom of the window displays the status of the program, along with one option that may be enabled:\
Preamble - the number of preambles of ADS-B frames detected\
Demod - the number of ADS-B frames demodulated\
Good CRC - the number of ADS-B frames with a valid CRC\
Bad CRC - the number of ADS-B frames with a bad CRC\
Fixed - the number of ADS-B frames with a bad CRC that were fixed (made good), followed by two numbers showing how many had 1 bad bit, and how many had 2\
Frames/sec - the number of good (valid plus fixed) frames per second. This can be used as a relative indicator of activity levels, and is useful when adjusting or comparing antennas, etc\
\
The Fix 2 check box can be checked if you wish to try and fix packets with two bad bits. This uses a lot more CPU time, and often produces bad frames. I generally leave it off (unchecked).\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 extra_icao.txt file
\b0 \
\
Cocoa1090 looks for a file called extra_icao.txt when it starts. If it finds it, it loads in plane data from this file. This can be used to supplement plane data in the app. The format of this file is text, with one plane entry per line.\
Each line has four tab delimited fields, such as:\
A318EA	N299WN	B737	B737-7H4/W\
\
The first field is the ICAO number in hex\
The second field is the tail (registration) number of the plane\
The third field is the plane model (not currently used, but must be present)\
The fourth field is the detailed plane information\
\
\

\b Plane Map
\b0 \
\
A map showing the locations of planes is displayed when the app opens. You can set your location in the Cocoa 1090 preferences (you will need to restart the app for changes to take effect, or you can manually move the map center location).\
\
Note that not all planes will be mapped, only those for which location frames have been decoded. This is usually just a small percentage of the total number of visible planes. \
\
I switched from using Google Maps API to a map drawn with vector data because Google changed something in their maps API (again) which broke displaying planes on the app. I don\'92t foresee switching back to their maps.\
\

\b Preferences
\b0 \
\
You can set several things in the app\'92s Preferences:\
I/Q Source Address: TCP address, normally 127.0.0.1 which means use this machine\
Port: Usually 1234\
UDP Output Port: The port to send messages with plane information\
Latitude: Your latitude, decimal number, north is positive, south is negative\
Longitude: Your longitude, decimal number, east is positive, west is negative\
Drop planes: How many seconds of not hearing a message from a plane causes it to be dropped from the list and map\
Open map at launch: When checked, a map will open when the app is launched, for plotting planes\
Play sounds: Four checkboxes to indicate when to play sound effects, and popup menus to select what sound effect to play\
\
\
\
\
\
Cocoa1090 uses source code from Mode1090/Dump1090:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f1\i \cf2 Mode1090, a Mode S messages decoder for RTLSDR devices.
\f2\i0 \cf3 \
\

\f1\i \cf2  Copyright (C) 2012 by Salvatore Sanfilippo <antirez@gmail.com>
\f2\i0 \cf3 \
\

\f1\i \cf2  All rights reserved.
\f2\i0 \cf3 \

\f1\i \cf2  
\f2\i0 \cf3 \

\f1\i \cf2  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
\f2\i0 \cf3 \

\f1\i \cf2  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
\f2\i0 \cf3 \

\f1\i \cf2  met:
\f2\i0 \cf3 \

\f1\i \cf2  
\f2\i0 \cf3 \

\f1\i \cf2   *  Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
\f2\i0 \cf3 \

\f1\i \cf2      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
\f2\i0 \cf3 \
\

\f1\i \cf2   *  Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
\f2\i0 \cf3 \

\f1\i \cf2      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
\f2\i0 \cf3 \

\f1\i \cf2      documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
\f2\i0 \cf3 \

\f1\i \cf2  
\f2\i0 \cf3 \

\f1\i \cf2  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
\f2\i0 \cf3 \

\f1\i \cf2  "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
\f2\i0 \cf3 \

\f1\i \cf2  LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
\f2\i0 \cf3 \

\f1\i \cf2  A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
\f2\i0 \cf3 \

\f1\i \cf2  HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
\f2\i0 \cf3 \

\f1\i \cf2  SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
\f2\i0 \cf3 \

\f1\i \cf2  LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
\f2\i0 \cf3 \

\f1\i \cf2  DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
\f2\i0 \cf3 \

\f1\i \cf2  THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
\f2\i0 \cf3 \

\f1\i \cf2  (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
\f2\i0 \cf3 \

\f1\i \cf2  OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
\f0\i0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
}